feat: `gnome-extensions` module (#190)
blue-build/modules: modules/gnome-extensions/README.md

# `gnome-extensions`

The `gnome-extensions` module can be used to install Gnome extensions inside system directory.

This module is universally compatible with all distributions which ship Gnome, as long as some extension doesn't require some additional dependency, like Pano.

Thanks to https://extensions.gnome.org which provides end-releases of extensions as zips, it is very easy to maintain this module configuration.

> Basically the only maintenance is to bump the extension version when new Fedora/Gnome releases (around every 6 months).

Reviewer: This sparked me to do some inspecting and debugger digging on the extensions page. I was able to find that an extension page on https://extensions.gnome.org/ contains a div with the data of all the versions, for example: 
```html
<div class="extension single-page dummy" data-epk="6" data-uuid="apps-menu@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com" data-svm="{'3.2': {'pk': 284, 'version': 5}, '3.2.0': {'pk': 6, 'version': 1}, '3.3.2': {'pk': 33, 'version': 3}, '3.2.1': {'pk': 52, 'version': 4}, '3.2.3': {'pk': 284, 'version': 5}, '3.3.4': {'pk': 640, 'version': 7}, '3.3.90': {'pk': 831, 'version': 8}, '3.4': {'pk': 1008, 'version': 9}, '3.5.5': {'pk': 1690, 'version': 10}, '3.5.90': {'pk': 1736, 'version': 11}, '3.5.91': {'pk': 1807, 'version': 12}, '3.6': {'pk': 2213, 'version': 14}, '3.7.5': {'pk': 2489, 'version': 16}, '3.7.90': {'pk': 2560, 'version': 17}, '3.7.92': {'pk': 2640, 'version': 18}, '3.8': {'pk': 3216, 'version': 21}, '3.10': {'pk': 3247, 'version': 22}, '3.12': {'pk': 3739, 'version': 23}, '3.14': {'pk': 4332, 'version': 24}, '3.15.1': {'pk': 4463, 'version': 25}, '3.15.3': {'pk': 4582, 'version': 26}, '3.16': {'pk': 4763, 'version': 27}, '3.18': {'pk': 5320, 'version': 29}, '3.20': {'pk': 5764, 'version': 30}, '3.21.2': {'pk': 5980, 'version': 31}, '3.22': {'pk': 6209, 'version': 32}, '3.24': {'pk': 6867, 'version': 34}, '3.26': {'pk': 7470, 'version': 36}, '3.28': {'pk': 8121, 'version': 38}, '3.30': {'pk': 8381, 'version': 39}, '3.32': {'pk': 10201, 'version': 41}, '3.34': {'pk': 13363, 'version': 43}, '3.36': {'pk': 14372, 'version': 44}, '3.38': {'pk': 21648, 'version': 46}, '40.0': {'pk': 22834, 'version': 47}, '40': {'pk': 24975, 'version': 48}, '41': {'pk': 28466, 'version': 50}, '42': {'pk': 29906, 'version': 51}, '43': {'pk': 34582, 'version': 52}, '44': {'pk': 40512, 'version': 53}, '45': {'pk': 48949, 'version': 56}, '46': {'pk': 52131, 'version': 58}}" data-versions="{'3.2': {'6': {'pk': 6, 'version': '1'}, '52': {'pk': 52, 'version': '4'}, '284': {'pk': 284, 'version': '5'}}, '3.2.0': {'6': {'pk': 6, 'version': '1'}}, '3.3.2': {'33': {'pk': 33, 'version': '3'}}, '3.2.1': {'52': {'pk': 52, 'version': '4'}}, '3.2.3': {'284': {'pk': 284, 'version': '5'}}, '3.3.4': {'640': {'pk': 640, 'version': '7'}}, '3.3.90': {'831': {'pk': 831, 'version': '8'}}, '3.4': {'1008': {'pk': 1008, 'version': '9'}}, '3.5.5': {'1690': {'pk': 1690, 'version': '10'}}, '3.5.90': {'1736': {'pk': 1736, 'version': '11'}}, '3.5.91': {'1807': {'pk': 1807, 'version': '12'}}, '3.6': {'1972': {'pk': 1972, 'version': '13'}, '2213': {'pk': 2213, 'version': '14'}}, '3.7.5': {'2473': {'pk': 2473, 'version': '15'}, '2489': {'pk': 2489, 'version': '16'}}, '3.7.90': {'2560': {'pk': 2560, 'version': '17'}}, '3.7.92': {'2640': {'pk': 2640, 'version': '18'}}, '3.8': {'2691': {'pk': 2691, 'version': '19'}, '2971': {'pk': 2971, 'version': '20'}, '3216': {'pk': 3216, 'version': '21'}}, '3.10': {'3247': {'pk': 3247, 'version': '22'}}, '3.12': {'3739': {'pk': 3739, 'version': '23'}}, '3.14': {'4332': {'pk': 4332, 'version': '24'}}, '3.15.1': {'4463': {'pk': 4463, 'version': '25'}}, '3.15.3': {'4582': {'pk': 4582, 'version': '26'}}, '3.16': {'4763': {'pk': 4763, 'version': '27'}}, '3.18': {'5205': {'pk': 5205, 'version': '28'}, '5320': {'pk': 5320, 'version': '29'}}, '3.20': {'5764': {'pk': 5764, 'version': '30'}}, '3.21.2': {'5980': {'pk': 5980, 'version': '31'}}, '3.22': {'6209': {'pk': 6209, 'version': '32'}}, '3.24': {'6684': {'pk': 6684, 'version': '33'}, '6867': {'pk': 6867, 'version': '34'}}, '3.26': {'7416': {'pk': 7416, 'version': '35'}, '7470': {'pk': 7470, 'version': '36'}}, '3.28': {'8110': {'pk': 8110, 'version': '37'}, '8121': {'pk': 8121, 'version': '38'}}, '3.30': {'8381': {'pk': 8381, 'version': '39'}}, '3.32': {'9396': {'pk': 9396, 'version': '40'}, '10201': {'pk': 10201, 'version': '41'}}, '3.34': {'11903': {'pk': 11903, 'version': '42'}, '13363': {'pk': 13363, 'version': '43'}}, '3.36': {'14372': {'pk': 14372, 'version': '44'}}, '3.38': {'19636': {'pk': 19636, 'version': '45'}, '21648': {'pk': 21648, 'version': '46'}}, '40.0': {'22834': {'pk': 22834, 'version': '47'}}, '40': {'24975': {'pk': 24975, 'version': '48'}}, '41': {'26942': {'pk': 26942, 'version': '49'}, '28466': {'pk': 28466, 'version': '50'}}, '42': {'29906': {'pk': 29906, 'version': '51'}}, '43': {'34582': {'pk': 34582, 'version': '52'}}, '44': {'40512': {'pk': 40512, 'version': '53'}}, '45': {'43704': {'pk': 43704, 'version': '54'}, '44582': {'pk': 44582, 'version': '55'}, '48949': {'pk': 48949, 'version': '56'}}, '46': {'51672': {'pk': 51672, 'version': '57'}, '52131': {'pk': 52131, 'version': '58'}}}">
```

Don't know if this is useful, though, parsing HTML in bash is a lost cause.

Reviewer: Actually, I was able to get that `data-svm` attribute with `xmllint` & `xpath` from a locally downloaded `.html` file.

`xmllint --html --xpath "/html/body//div[contains(@class, 'extension')]/@data-svm" ext6.html`

The output is still somewhat tough to parse, though.
```
ext6.html:40: HTML parser error : Tag header invalid
    <header class="gnome-header">
                                ^
 data-svm="{&quot;3.2&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 284, &quot;version&quot;: 5}, &quot;3.2.0&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 6, &quot;version&quot;: 1}, &quot;3.3.2&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 33, &quot;version&quot;: 3}, &quot;3.2.1&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 52, &quot;version&quot;: 4}, &quot;3.2.3&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 284, &quot;version&quot;: 5}, &quot;3.3.4&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 640, &quot;version&quot;: 7}, &quot;3.3.90&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 831, &quot;version&quot;: 8}, &quot;3.4&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 1008, &quot;version&quot;: 9}, &quot;3.5.5&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 1690, &quot;version&quot;: 10}, &quot;3.5.90&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 1736, &quot;version&quot;: 11}, &quot;3.5.91&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 1807, &quot;version&quot;: 12}, &quot;3.6&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 2213, &quot;version&quot;: 14}, &quot;3.7.5&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 2489, &quot;version&quot;: 16}, &quot;3.7.90&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 2560, &quot;version&quot;: 17}, &quot;3.7.92&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 2640, &quot;version&quot;: 18}, &quot;3.8&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 3216, &quot;version&quot;: 21}, &quot;3.10&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 3247, &quot;version&quot;: 22}, &quot;3.12&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 3739, &quot;version&quot;: 23}, &quot;3.14&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 4332, &quot;version&quot;: 24}, &quot;3.15.1&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 4463, &quot;version&quot;: 25}, &quot;3.15.3&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 4582, &quot;version&quot;: 26}, &quot;3.16&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 4763, &quot;version&quot;: 27}, &quot;3.18&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 5320, &quot;version&quot;: 29}, &quot;3.20&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 5764, &quot;version&quot;: 30}, &quot;3.21.2&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 5980, &quot;version&quot;: 31}, &quot;3.22&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 6209, &quot;version&quot;: 32}, &quot;3.24&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 6867, &quot;version&quot;: 34}, &quot;3.26&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 7470, &quot;version&quot;: 36}, &quot;3.28&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 8121, &quot;version&quot;: 38}, &quot;3.30&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 8381, &quot;version&quot;: 39}, &quot;3.32&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 10201, &quot;version&quot;: 41}, &quot;3.34&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 13363, &quot;version&quot;: 43}, &quot;3.36&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 14372, &quot;version&quot;: 44}, &quot;3.38&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 21648, &quot;version&quot;: 46}, &quot;40.0&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 22834, &quot;version&quot;: 47}, &quot;40&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 24975, &quot;version&quot;: 48}, &quot;41&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 28466, &quot;version&quot;: 50}, &quot;42&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 29906, &quot;version&quot;: 51}, &quot;43&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 34582, &quot;version&quot;: 52}, &quot;44&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 40512, &quot;version&quot;: 53}, &quot;45&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 48949, &quot;version&quot;: 56}, &quot;46&quot;: {&quot;pk&quot;: 52131, &quot;version&quot;: 58}}"
```

Your approach is lean and mean and not prone to breakage, so I'm not sure whether this additional automation would be worth it.

Author: It would be indeed great If we could implement this cleanly.

Is there something like `yq` but for `html` files?

Is `xmllint` what I basically ask?

Reviewer: > Is there something like yq but for html files?

`xq`

> Is xmllint what I basically ask?

It's an xml formatter and validator that apparently is both installed by default and can be used to parse HTML.

Author: I will resolve this for now, as it's too difficult to implement.

# `gnome-extensions`

The `gnome-extensions` module can be used to install Gnome extensions inside system directory.

This module is universally compatible with all distributions which ship Gnome, as it's not tied to specific distribution packaging format for installing extensions.  

Almost all Gnome extensions are compatible for installation.  

> Only rare intervention that might be needed is for extensions which require some additional system dependencies, like Pano.   

Reviewer: > like Pano.

Should add a link to "Pano" and instructions for what to do when an extension needs this "rare intervention".

Author: I got rid of "Pano", in case it gets depreciates, so there is no need to edit the README for that.

I added the explanation in Usage, as I find it fits better there.

> Thanks to https://extensions.gnome.org which provides end-releases of extensions as zips, it is very easy to maintain this module configuration.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to https://extensions.gnome.org which provides releases of extensions as zips, it is very easy to maintain this module configuration.  
```

The only maintenance is to bump the extension version when new Fedora/Gnome releases (around every 6 months).

What does this module do?

> - It parses the gettext-domain that you inputted, along with the extension version

Reviewer: This line is probably opaque and meaningless to most readers. What is a gettext-domain? Even a Google search only leads to some results that don't really help with understanding the concept, if they are even related.

Should either explain more, or less. But the middleground with giving too much information but not what is needed to understand it is not helpful as the first element in this list.

Author: I got rid of the technical terms & only explained it basically, but still technically correct, so all users can understand.

- It downloads the extension directly from https://extensions.gnome.org
- Downloaded extension archive is then extracted to temporary directory
- All of its extracted files are copied to the appropriate final directories  
  (`/usr/share/gnome-shell/extensions`, `/usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas`, & `/usr/share/locale`)

# Usage

> To use this module, you need to input gettext-domain of the extension without @ symbol + the version of the extension in `.v%VERSION%` format in module recipe.  

Reviewer: The string `%VERSION%` should not be used to represent the extension version unless it is actually what the user should input in the recipe to get some sort of dynamic version. This is because the `rpm-ostree` module uses `%OS_VERSION%` as a shorthand for the current Fedora version in repo URLs, and using the same syntax to mean different things might be confusing.

Author: I think that this part of the section can be removed with your latest doc changes, as everything necessary is explained in install instructions.

Author: Resolved

But for some extensions, `.v%VERSION%` is parsed as the version of package in incremental numbering, instead of extension version in https://extensions.gnome.org URL.  
So to be sure that you got the correct module input, follow the steps below.

> How to gather correct module input:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to install extensions using the module:  
```

~~Maybe this would be a good way to replace the "gettext domain" term?~~

Edit: changed section title to reflect the content in another suggestion.

Reviewer: Or actually, the extensions already have IDs, so IDK:

`https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/2236/night-theme-switcher/`
-> id is `2236`

Reviewer: Either way, `module input` and `gettext domain` should both be replaced with a better term if we can come up with one.

1. Go to https://extensions.gnome.org
2. Search for the extension that you want
3. Select the matching Gnome shell version & extension version that you want to download

> 4. When extension is downloaded, you get the info when you omit `.shell-extension.zip` suffix from the extension zip file-name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to https://extensions.gnome.org
2. Search for the extension that you want to install and open its extension page
3. Select the correct GNOME shell version & extension version from the dropdown
   - The command `gnome-shell --version` can be used to get the GNOME version of a running system.
4. When the download dialog for the extension comes up, copy everything but the `.shell-extension.zip` suffix from the filename into the `install:` array in this module's configuration.
```

3. Select the correct GNOME shell version & extension version from the dropdown
   - The command `gnome-shell --version` can be used to get the GNOME version of a running system.
4. When the download dialog for the extension comes up, copy everything but the `.shell-extension.zip` suffix from the filename into the `install:` array in this module's configuration.

> Rarely, some extensions need additional system dependencies in order to function.  
> Those extensions usually note that case inside the extension description webpage.  
> The solution is to install the required dependencies by using `rpm-ostree` module before `gnome-extensions` module is ran.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An extension might need additional system dependencies in order to function.  
In that case, you should install the required dependencies before the `gnome-extensions` module is ran.
Information about the required dependencies (if any) are usually on the extension's page.  
```
